Celestia Compression PR-1: ground work and preparation (#2977)
Sovereign-Labs/sovereign-sdk: CHANGELOG.md

# 2026-06-12

> - #PR_NUMBER Celestia adapter: the ZK verifier now rejects blobs whose witness-recorded total length does not match the `sequence_length` of the authenticated first share (`BlobDataError::TotalLenMismatch`). Previously this prover-supplied value was never cross-checked, so a malicious prover could forge `total_len()` — which feeds gas accounting and size gates in the STF — while still producing a valid DA proof. Also introduces internal `compressed_*`/`logical_*` accessors on `BlobWithSender` separating DA-physical from rollup-visible byte accounting, in preparation for blob compression. No other behavior change.

Author: ```suggestion
- #2977 Celestia adapter: the ZK verifier now rejects blobs whose witness-recorded total length does not match the `sequence_length` of the authenticated first share (`BlobDataError::TotalLenMismatch`). Previously this prover-supplied value was never cross-checked, so a malicious prover could forge `total_len()` — which feeds gas accounting and size gates in the STF — while still producing a valid DA proof. Also introduces internal `compressed_*`/`logical_*` accessors on `BlobWithSender` separating DA-physical from rollup-visible byte accounting, in preparation for blob compression. No other behavior change.
```
